“We decided, let’s put a message in a
bottle, why not?”
“This channel, that we had to cross to get
to the next island, this was the one that
was infested with sharks and stingrays.
I mean, I say infested but there were several,
you know, and that’s a little worrisome
when you can’t touch the bottom and you’re
in their domain!”
“We wrote a note, we dated it, and we signed
our names to it, we rolled it up, and we put
some cake into the bottle.
And we put the cork that came with the wine
bottle, just popped it right onto it.
We got up and we went out to the ocean.”
“I get like five or ten feet away from this
bottle and there’s just this like, lightning
flash, where I’m like, oh my God, there’s
paper in there, there’s clearly paper in
there.”
“I tossed a bottle into the ocean and then
it traveled around for a few years, a few
thousand miles, it washed up on a beach, and
then you found it.”
These two met in one of the strangest ways
imaginable: through a message in a bottle.
And it’s largely thanks to this guy, Clint
Buffington, who one might say has a certain
knack for finding these bottles on beaches
around the world.
“You know I thought that I had maybe found
84, and I opened one recently and it turned
out to be a receipt, so I’m gonna say 83.”
“I’ll tell you some of the stuff that
I found on the beach.”
“Yeah.
So, definitely bottles, obviously.
Lightbulbs, shoes, yeah, of all kinds, sneakers,
flip flops, every other kind of clothing,
shirts, socks, refrigerators.
microwaves, televisions, computers.
Found a bunch of blackberry phones, I’ve
found cameras washed up, film canisters, cleaning
detergent.
Did I mention light bulbs?
Yeah that’s a big one.”
“Fluorescent tubes, yeah those things are
terrifying.
Some places I go it’s just like a carpet
of light bulbs.
You just have to tiptoe because it’s like
you never know when you’re gonna get a piece
of glass through the leg.”
Aside from the usual pollutants and trash,
Clint has found lots and lots of bottles with
messages inside.
Here’s him holding that wine bottle Carol
and her husband Ed stuffed with cake and tossed
into the sea on their first wedding anniversary.
He’s also got opinions on which types of
bottles are best for protecting messages,
and which ones look the best.
“Probably the best, believe it or not, is
the most classic beautiful thing that you
think of with a message in a bottle, which
is just a wine bottle that has a cork in it,
an actual cork.”
It isn’t always clear where the messages
come from — and sometimes, Clint spends
months tracking down the sender.
He found Carol and Ed after contacting a local
news reporter, who wrote a story about the
bottle that brought them together.
But Clint also has an innate understanding
of the ocean.
Ed and Carol Meyers dropped their bottle from
a resort in North Carolina’s Outer Banks.
Clint found it about a thousand miles away
in the Turks & Caicos islands.
This bottle’s journey wasn’t entirely
random: there was some science involved.
The Nautical Magazine and Naval Chronicle
for 1843 has a lot of interesting stuff in
it; stuff like keeping up morale by doling
out lots of rum.
But you’ll also find tables and tables of
so-called “bottle papers.”
For centuries, researchers used bottles to
study the ocean’s currents.
They’d toss a bottle into the sea, and track
not only where it ended up, but how it got
there.
For example, in one study a bottle was dropped
a bottle at 24 degrees north, 19 degrees west
and eventually showed up in Cuba.
Sailors could use this information to learn
about the ocean’s various current patterns.
Surface currents travel in big gyres - think
of them as these whirling circles - and they
carry stuff like trash and messages in bottles
around the world.
Looking at these current patterns, we know
that Carol’s bottle, departing from North
Carolina, most likely traversed the entire
North Atlantic ocean and made its way down
the coast of North Africa before being redirected
to the Caribbean where Cliint found it.
Clint will often use these currents to determine
where to look for his treasures.
“If you’re looking for messages in bottles
on the northwest coast, you’re probably
going to find some from Pacific Island Nations,
or maybe from Japan.
Say you’re looking for messages in bottles
in England, you’ll probably find a lot from
the States because we’ve got the Gulf Stream
that goes right up the east coast of the States
and heads straight over to Europe, so a lot
of stuff washes up in Europe.”
You can even, to a certain degree, predict
it.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
has a current simulator, using data from electronically
updated tracking buoys.
Drop a pin near Hawaii, and you’ll find
it ends up in Taiwan.
And the message in a bottle stories seem to
match right up.
Clint frequents Turks & Caicos, which is perfectly
situated to receive bottles from all over
the east coast and Europe.
He’s found bottles off the Missouri River
and in other odd places, but the Caribbean
islands are something of a treasure trove
for bottles that travel through the North
Atlantic Gyre.
Clint’s real trick, though, isn’t finding
these bottles, but tracking down the people
who send them.
“You know, if somebody sees this bottle
on the beach, which is empty, that’s obviously
trash.
Right?
But then this bottle is not.
In my mind, that’s treasure, that’s trash.”
Messages in bottles may not be the best way
to exchange information.
But they connect people in ways an email never
could.
“We wrote, Ed and Carol Meyers celebrated
their first wedding anniversary at the Sanderling
Inn Resort on February 14th, 1999.
They were wed on Valentine’s Day in Fredericksburg
Virginia.
Included in this note is some of our wedding
cake.
Peace and love to you, we wish you happiness.
And then we each signed it.”
Currents are predictable; Clint can more or
less determine where a bottle will end up.
But he can’t predict who sent it.
And that’s really the beauty of the message
in a bottle: it leaves the connecting part
to the ebb and flow of the natural world.
There’s no algorithm, no social network
— just the pulse of the sea, and the promise
of a mystery.
“When we found each other, it was also a
point in my life when my mother had been diagnosed
with cancer and she was going to quickly die
shortly thereafter.
And doctors found in me an unruptured brain
aneurysm.
And in the middle of all that horror and pain
and grief was this magical, really mystical
experience of you finding this bottle that
we had forgotten about.”
“And it was a huge turning point in my life,
too.
I mean, I never really thought about it this
way, but finishing college and going out to
the world, it’s a time when everybody’s
trying to figure out who they’re going to
be.
Having this as a hobby, it really defines
who I am now.
It’s interesting that it came at such a
pivotal moment for both of us.”
“It’s probably unfair to ask this, but
do you have a favorite message in a bottle?”
“Well, I do, and it’s yours, but don’t
tell anybody else.”
“Don’t tell anybody else, for future bottle
messages.”
“I think Sting is probably the first one
who really takes the message in a bottle and
blows it up in pop culture.”
Sting: “Message in a bottle, yeah.”